NEW BUILDING VERIFICATION METHODOLOGY FOR WATTCARBON

ENERGY ATTRIBUTE CREDITS (EACS) AND ENERGY ATTRIBUTE TRACKING SYSTEM (WEATS)

INTRODUCTION

AUROS Group developed the following new building EAC verification methodology to be used in the

WEATS platform for the transaction of operational carbon savings from the decarbonization of new

buildings. This methodology is intended to be used when buildings do not have metered, hourly

consumption data. Using calibrated, physics-based dynamic whole-building simulation energy

models, authenticated hourly consumption metrics can be simulated and generated.

DEFINED TERMS

Building Energy Model (BEM) is a physics-based software simulation that dynamically (8760) predicts

a building\&#39;s hourly energy use. BEM takes input from a variety of sources, including, but not limited

to, building geometry, construction materials, lighting, HVAC, refrigeration, water heating, and

renewable generation systems, component efficiencies, control strategies, building use and operation

schedules, and local weather. Acceptable BEM software are IES VE, eQuest, and EnergyPlus.

Baseline BEM (BEM baseline ) represents buildings that would have otherwise been designed and

constructed to meet the minimum requirements of local building codes using a Time Period of carbon

emissions prior to building operations. In that instance, the BEM must comply with ASHRAE

Standard 90.1-2010 compliance, which provides the minimum requirements for energy-efficient

design of most buildings. The model uses 30-year meteorological hourly weather data.

Betterment BEM (BEM betterment ) is a representative BEM of the existing building using a Time Period of

carbon emissions after decarbonization mitigation. The BEM is calibrated as defined in Model

Calibration within the limits of ASHRAE Guidelines 14-2023 using meteorological hourly weather data

for the same Time Period.

Model Calibration according to ASHRAE guideline 14-2023 Section 4.3.2.4 Whole-Building Calibrated

Simulation Performance Path requires minimum acceptable model calibration of a normalized mean

bias error (NMBE) of 5% and a coefficient of variation of the root-mean-square error of (CV\[RMSE]) of

15% relative to monthly calibration data.

Time Period for new buildings is the consecutive 12-month period of time ending at the completion of

construction for the new building. For existing buildings, the Time Period is any consecutive 12-month

period of time where acceptable utility consumption data is available for all forms of energy used

within the building.

Source Data represents meteorological hourly weather data used in the BEM and consumption data

for all forms of energy from monthly utility consumption data, metered, hourly consumption data, or

another data source, approved by WattCarbon, that represents actual building performance for the

representative Time Period.

VERIFICATION METHODOLOGY FOR BUILDING DECARBONIZATION

When metered, hourly consumption data is not available for new buildings, calibrated physics-based

dynamics whole-building simulation energy BEM models can be used to generate authenticated

hourly consumption data for transactional purposes.

The intent of using BEM models is to simulate and generate authenticated EAC (EAC a ) hourly

consumption data for the WEATS platform for all buildings that do not have metered, hourly

consumption data. This verification methodology reliably converts monthly utility data to transactable,

authenticated hourly consumption data using proven building science technology.

The mathematical methodology for the hourly time series data is as follows:

BEM baseline – BEM betterment = EAC a
